---
title: gjn - plan file of July 2015
author: gjn
date: 2015-07-31
---

# Friday, July 31st 2015

## MAP

* SEO still not very good. Our trust in googles promise to execute Javascript
  turned out to be misplaced. It doesn't happen. Or not everytime.

* Looked at new category integration of new swissnames3D search index. Looks good.
  [Needs small patch in front-end](https://github.com/geoadmin/mf-geoadmin3/pull/2544)

## 3D

* ogr2ogr is not enough for us to transfer from 2056 to WGS84 because it's missing
  the exact transformation using the geoid. Heights will be wrong. Geodesy
  departement will create a tool for us. Ah, how I like the datum/projection
  hell. Anyway, Geodosey are masters of hell. They'll help us out with a tool
  that we can scale up in the cloud to take care of these transformations.

  I was able to test the tool that they were providing us. It runs well on our
  servers. Long live Mono! Now it needs to be integrated into our process
  and enabled in a distributed way.

* Python `pool.map_async` (and related function) are actually not lazy iterating
  over the passed iterator. They create a full list internally before passing them to
  the process queue. This explains the issue we detected yesterday. Too bad. Worked
  on creating our own laziness (`gjn_lazy`, what a branch name!), trying different
  approached. A dummy approach is to apply laziness in chunks (get jobs in x chunks
  at a time and pass them of to `pool.map_asyn`) once chunk at a time. When choosing
  the chunks big enough, performance impact should be minimal. Also, there are
  alternatives that are possoble.

## Support

* Could reach Mr. C from ZV. We need to support old ga API files because they can't
  rollout an update in time. They should inform us when they are capable of doing so.

## Admin

* Kill office mails

# Thursday, July 30th 2015

## MAP

* Reviewed [important re-factoring](https://github.com/geoadmin/mf-geoadmin3/pull/2539) by teo. I'm reminded once again that there are reasons to ignore the DRY principle. Sometimes, it makes more sense to treat semantically different things with different code, even if it sometimes means duplicatin some code. Understandability trumps DRY principle most of the time. Code is much cleaner now. Events are easier to follow. Understanding is increased.
* Reviewed first 3D integration by teo. Masterful.
* Reviewed [cusomisation from 3rd  parties](https://github.com/geoadmin/mf-geoadmin3/pull/2500). Nice to see getting more and more from 3rd parties.
* [Created PR](https://github.com/geoadmin/mf-geoadmin3/pull/2541) to reduce size and complexity of Makefile. It always feels good to remove code.
* Our kml test (e2e) still fails from time to time. Need to look deeper. Prepared another PR to adapt timout.

## API

* Analysed Jenkins build failure because of new model GeolGenKarteGGK200. clm was able to [fix it](https://github.com/geoadmin/mf-chsdi3/pull/1586). Child models must have same primary key defined as parent model; otherwise `get_primary_key_column()` function fails. Duh.
* Fix another simple bug that broke the build. We need to be more careful when creating PR and merging them. Damn.

## 3D

* Worked on in-time coordinate transformation (EPSG:21781 to WGS84) during data import to database. Good to finally dive into this datum mess. Still need to decide if to use distortion grids or not.
* Launched creation of level 18 tiles in testing zone - balzing fast right now (more than 10 tiles per second). [Something is still fishy](https://github.com/geoadmin/3d-forge/issues/102), process is not complete, yet no more tiles are calculated.
* Analysed Cesium debug tile coordinates display and fixed it. They are not consistent with tileschemes in debug tools.
* [Created PR for Cesium](https://github.com/AnalyticalGraphicsInc/cesium/pull/2910) with the above fix
* [Added skipped tile counter](https://github.com/geoadmin/3d-forge/pull/101)

## Support

* Answered request regarding Height service. Yes, different models give different results.
* Answered request regarding API global variable conflict, [created issue](https://github.com/geoadmin/mf-chsdi3/issues/1585). We are in trouble as we polute the global space. This should not happen.
* Answered request regarding code sample of opacity slider
* Answered request regarding quadindex creation in postgis
* Tried to reach Mr. C. (ZV) by phone for API update troubles. Couldn't be reached. Left a message.

## Tools

* Installed vimium in home office chrome. What a blast!
