---
title: gjn - plan file of August 2015
author: gjn
date: 2015-08-31
---

# Thursday, August 27th 2015

## MAP
* Reviewed the 3D Permalink PR by fredj
* Reviewed the 3D layer synchro patch. Fantastic.
* Reviewed a small fix by teo
* Overlay to vector for markers reviewed. Not yet ready to be merged.

# Wednesday, August 26th 2015

## Infrastructure
* dev.bgdi.ch and jenkins was down. We had to revert to v3 yesterday with
  everything. Still working on v4 integration (upgrade to 4.0.3 is going on
  currently)

## Deploy
* Only bod, chsdi3 and ga3. We are getting rid of a couple of 500 errors with
  this 

## MAP
* Switch to use tooltip/queryable attributes of layersconfig in front-end.
* 3D permalink reviewed and tested. Still open issues.

## API
* Adapted result length fix to return 509 instead of 413, as this seems more
  proper to us
* Refactoring of folder setup of nosetests
* Adding nose-exclude. But damn, does not work as advertised as you can't add
  a list of directories. Bummer. Single directory only.
* Added sphinx layers tests. We have mismatch between searchable attribute and
  existing sphinx indices
* Releases service seems to be buggy or we are passing the wrong parameters to
  it for multi-page printing. The wrong model is selected.

## 3D
* Reviewed gal PR regarding using numpy for matrix stuff. This looks good.

## Admin
* Session with foa/gal regarding working pachages for new intern. After
  introduction, will concentrate on testing and testing 70% coverage will be her goal.

# Tuesday, August 25th 2015

## ***DOWNTIME***
* We suffered another downtime on Saturday. Same pattern as the previous ones.
  It looks that 3 out of 4 downtimes are triggered by some very long identify
  requests a couple of minutes prior. Will try to reproduce now.

## Infrastructure
* Switch to v4 could not be down. We quickly had ELB warnings about backends
  that are down. Turns out that V4 still has alot of panics...

## MAP
* 3D background layer dicussion with moc. Glad that he starts seeing my
  point the 3D is a mode, not a background layers. We also need some nice
  3D presentations as teasers for some active layers. We don't have
  anyone that could do 3D symbology..
* Preparing deploy of tomorrow

## API
* Fix bug when we want to parse a feature from the db that is too long. We
  suspect that this might also cause the mini downtimes we have observed.
  This will be deployed tomorrow.

## Admin
* Get rid of all the mails

# Friday, August 21st 2015

## Map
* Some reviews.

## API
* More work on tests.
* Introduced possibility to manually test mako rendering for all features
  to assure it really works under all conditions. It's still brute force 
  and is not unittesting proper. We should separate python code from mako
  rendering more thoroughly to allow for better unit testing with artifical
  data that will cover all boder cases.

# Thursday, August 20th 2015

## Map
* Quite a few reviews done. Good refactoring by teo to address 'time' in
  the permalink alot better.

## API
* Worked mainly on improving tests.
* Separated htmlPopup tests into separate file to better configure it and
  to allow nosetests to show progress better. It's a little more pyhtonic
  in that way.

# Wednesday, August 19th 2015

## Map
* Deploy to fix offline. At the same time, we deployed 3D the first time
  to production. For those who find it, it's a very early Alpha.
* 3D View is progressing nicely. The framework is up and we are happy wit it.
* Work on permalink support is now done, as well as other things
* Had a good 3D meeting with the guys.

## API
* Working on improving the get tile tests. I think I've found a neat solution.

## 3D
* Data processing was stopped to adapt the data on the borders. Looks like 
  mec has now found a good solution for this.
* Still battling to share 1.5 TB of data. IT does not like shortcuts to take here
  which of course slows down the process quite a bit.

# Tuesday, August 18th 2015

## Map
* Great immersive 3D modes by Fréd and Guillaume. We also have a flight mode
  now. I see great potential in it and when we have good data, this could
  really boost 3D cartography/webmapping into new directions.
* Lazy loading active. We'll deploy this to prod tomorrown (of course, still
  disabled for normal users)
* Some more test fistures to make Jenkins fail a little less often.
* Some nasty apache configuration hack to fix offline because of how stupid 
  appcache works (or does not work) with CORS resources over https. It's really
  quite a big mess. I can't wait to use service workers for offline stuff.

## 3D
* Still waiting on data...


# Wednesday, August 12th 2015

## DOWNTIME
* We suffered another downtime today. It had the same characteristics as the
  previous ones.
* We are stuck with it

## Map
* KML tests adapted a little bit to get rid of explicitly waiting for stuff
* Lot's of stuff going on in the 3D Viewer. We are working on lazy loading of
  all 3D related code. Once we have it, it'll be in master

## Jenkins
* Some adaptions to tests definitions. We don't run the gettiles test anymore.
* We want to puppetize the proxy we use for e2e testing.


# Tuesday, August 11th 2015

## DOWNTIME

* Analyisis going on. It's hard to pin down, but it seems between SQLAlchemy,
  postgres and Apache.
* We can't reproduce it

# 3D
* Some optimisations and re-factoring to 3D-forge

# Monday, August 10th 2015

## DOWNTIME

* We suffered a 10 minute downtime on Sundy between 14:45 and 14:55
* It's our usual apache congestion driven downtime, as first one instance started
  to congest and taking down the other instance as well
* This time, however, not clear why we have this congestion and the long request
  times to begin with. It concerns multiple back-ends at the same time, but only
  concerns *mod_wsgi* services, it seems.
* This is going to be hard to track down...

# Friday, August 7th 2015

## Varnish

* Varnish 503 errors. We believe it was change introduced in July 30th, that
  increased ttl of S3 backed resources to 30 days. This lead to RAM limits of
  varnish. This couldn't be observed before because we restarted varnish on a
  regular basis...or to put it more correctly, the long url bug re-started varnish
  randomly...

## 3D

* Finished poolmanager PR. Now db import is using the same class.
* New terrain addresses are now active
* Wrote code to copy existing terrain files to new url
* Updated applications to use new official urls
* Also updated ga3 application to use new official urls.
* Added perimeter to layerjson branch of loic. We'll discuss Monday on what we
  want to do with layer.json file (how to create, how to use, etc)

## Jenkins

* Looked at chsdi3 tests with generators. We have to call them explicitely in
  jenkins, otherwise, they won't get executed. I've adapted the config accordingly
  for api3.geo.admin.ch.

# Thursday, August 6th 2015

## 3D

* Analysis of skipped tiles. They are skipped on borders of extent. The extent we
  specify is never exactly what we really have. So global geodetic doesn't match.
* Poolmanager created and re-factoring to increase readability of code. Also,
  processing is much (37%) faster now (level 18 re-created in under 10 hours)
* Discussion regarding layer.json.
* Created 3d switch for mf-geoadmin3
* Reviewed first PR of Oli for 3d
* Initiated effort to have lazy loading of 3d libraries. It's mandatory for us.
  Guillaume will investigate this using goog.module.

# Wednesday, August 5th 2015

## 3D

* Responded to gal's great analysis and overall improvements. Guy can code.

## Jenkins

* Created spreadsheet to keep track of jenkins failures and their reasons a little
  more systematci than by emails.
* Did run jenkins every hour during the night. We still have troubles with the
  tooling we are using. Browserstack is not stable. Some of our tests are not
  stable enough to be of value. This needs to be adressed. I hope I can move
  people. 

# Wednesday, August 5th 2015

## 3D

* Great kick-off meeting for 3D viewer inside map.geo.admin.ch. We have a good
  team that will get it done. Still alot of open questions regarding data and
  draping layers, etc. We will fully integrate it into our dev cycle (meaning, 3d
  code will end up in master very soon) and make it activatable via switch.
* We need to create most common layers as transformed tiles. Otherwise, mapproxy
  is going to explode during development.
* Some discussion about the strange artefacts with c2c people. Looks like gal is
  on track to find something. When a viewer is your only debugging tool, you will
  be slow. We should try to speed up this process altogether.

## Deploy

* Had to re-deploy bod to integration
* Had to re-deploy bod to int/prod as well as ga3 snapshot to int/prod (bod was
  configured wrongly)
* Deploy process is botched because of caching issue. To really be sure, we need
  to deploy ga3 twice in the future.

## Jenkins

* Replied to Matthiue about troubles we still have with new Jenkins instance.
* Lots of stuff needed to be done to get Jenkins finally rolling. Among others a
  really strange bug in ga3 unit tests that were just visible on the jenkins
  instance.

# Tuesday, August 4th 2015

## MAP

* Georanking and Data ranking. How can we satisfy our clients and still create a
  reasonable user experience. How can we guide the user to new and exciting
  information with discriminating _some_ clients. Is it even possible?
* Some minor reviews.

## 3D

* Use tlm layer as default layer on application start of test application. TLM
  will be the default layer in final application, so it kine of makes sense.
* Flushing varnish takes some time...

## Tools

* Jenkins migration. Not as easy. We should start managing this stuff with puppet.
  It's a pain with the rights and software packages installed/needed.

## Admin

* All those mails.


